1. FALSE: In fact, the data on attraction suggest that we are much more likely to fall in love with someone similar to us.

2. TRUE: The current evidence suggests that everyone dreams. Even people who have been blind since birth have dreams, although these people do not experience the sense of sight in the process. They dream in other senses (touch, hearing, etc.).

3. TRUE: See the the Milgram study.

4. FALSE: The current edition of the diagnostic manual of the American Psychiatric Association does not list homosexuality as a mental disorder. Interestingly, earlier editions of this manual did. In many ways, the varied diagnoses are as much a political as a psychological issue.

5. FALSE: They do not possess greater acuity. However, they do rely more on other sensory systems and have more brain tissue devoted to these senses. They use this to pay attention to aspects and fine distinctions of stimuli in other sensory areas than those of us who are sighted may overlook.

6. TRUE: Research shows that animals process information in ways very similar to those observed in humans.

7. FALSE: This view is held predominantly by Freudian psychologists, but research on the topic has failed to demonstrate that we can determine a person's hidden thoughts or desires from examining their dreams. A well-trained psychologist who knows the person well may be able to help him or her recognize allusions to already known problems in some dreams. But the raw materials of the dream start off as random garbage signals, onto which the cerebral cortex imposes meaning by telling a story about them. Current research suggests that the brain is in an associative mode during REM sleep; thus, sometimes the stories are about things that are troubling the dreamer.

8. FALSE: There is no direct relationship between playing classical music for young children and a rise in their IQ scores. Parents who invest in classical music CDs for their children may in general be paying more attention to and providing more stimulation for their youngsters, which would have beneficial effects for intellectual development, given the plasticity of the human brain from 0–6 years of age.

